pulse
=====

Every person, whether they are aware of it or not, has a basic rhythm to their lives. A simple example of this daily rhythm is the fact that many of us fall asleep at a certain time, sleep a certain number of hours, wake up at a certain time, and go to work at a certain time where we work a regular block of time till we head back home, and repeat the pattern again. Beyond these basic behavioral rhythms are the complex set of interpersonal interactions we have regularly with our friends, family members, colleagues, and romantic partners. These rhythms are both biological and social and they are there to ensure that our physical bodies and social lives maintain a certain degree of homeostasis or consistency.

These rhythms are neither good nor bad, they simply are. But maintaining consistency in a rhythm has been found to be a trailing and lagging indicator of cognitive function, work productivity, and social engagement. And likewise, when these rhythms become shifted or erratic, they often leading and trailing indicators of biological, cognitive or social disruptions in the lives of an individual. In many cases, such as chronic insomnia or acute depression the line between biology and behavior blurs; regardless of the trigger . 

Pulse is an app that simple measures and visualizes your rhythm - a basic beacon of the waveform of your daily life to friends and family around you. The point of presenting this signal is just to present a basic high-level signal that you are 1) active and 2) this activity has a rhythm that either falls in or is different with your past rhythm. Pulse does not share more information than that - at least not for the initial product - our assumption is that if a member of your friends and family circle, that are using Pulse, see that you have a shift in your rhythm than they will contact you via SMS, IM, phone, video chat or email. And via that communication the context of what’s going on will be shared privately and by you. This communication is really key as it drives active social engagement with a circle of friends and family that you have mutually opted into a joint relationship with to share your Pulse with and occasionally vice-versa. Later iterations of the app may have more functionality to post status updates or IM-dialogue based comments, but for now we have the simplest reduction of Pulse as just that, a Pulse. 
